Note on the Rubric 
------------------
Professor Ferrari and Samuels conferred on all projects before assigning a final project grade to each one. Although some of the grading criteria may appear subjective to you, we were as objective as possible and assigned almost all the grades using checkpoints on the essential parts that we required for the project. 

The soft criterium we used is mostly concentrated on items #2 (Data Analysis) and #3 (Scope and Complexity). The final grade for those items resulted from Instructors' joint evaluation of all the projects as a whole. We are also recognizing in those rubrics team's effort and dedication. We consider a project more complex if it required different types of skills and used more diverse content we covered in during the quarter (e.g., if the team downloaded and used two ready-to-use data sets VS if the data was constructed using complex webscraping, data cleaning, record linkage, and everything was stored in a relational SQL database).

Please note that these grades are final! We will not make any grade adjusts unless it is due to an arithmetic error. 

As always with assignments, feel free to reach out if you do have any questions about improvement or clarification. Please respond via email if you do have any questions (not on piazza). With moving to remote learning for the spring, We will be busy preparing for the next quarter so we may not have a chance to respond right away. 

-------

Project Evaluation Points:
    - Completeness & Correctness (Project Requirements):
        Points Possible: 60
        Points Obtained: 58

    - Design:
        Points Possible: 25
        Points Obtained: 25

    - Coding Style:
        Points Possible: 15
        Points Obtained: 15


Total Points: 98 / 100


Breakdown of Completeness & Correctness:       

  - Contains README and/or a pdf with textual information describing the project.
        Points Possible: 10
        Points Obtained: 8


   ##Comment: In the original script I provided, I used the default alias for python (i.e., python or python3.7). In your updated version, you are providing an absolute path which can be cumbersome, especially if the version of python is not in that exact location. One way to improve on this is to have them specify the python3.8 as a command line argument and verify the existence of this path in your script. This is not a big deal but just a helpful suggestion in the future. 


  - Fulfills requirement #1: Two Data Sources(Web or API and another source)
        Points Possible: 15
        Points Obtained: 15

  - Fulfills requirement #2: Data analysis component
        Points Possible: 15
        Points Obtained: 15

  - Fulfills requirement #3: Project Scope & Complexity
        Points Possible: 15
        Points Obtained: 15

  - Fulfills requirement #4: Visualization or Textual Component
        Points Possible: 5
        Points Obtained: 5


Comments: >
     Great work, everyone! This was a beautifully done project. You guys did a great job with organization, architecture of the project and produced a wonderful interface that allows users to 
     Easily interact with the application. There's not much suggestion on my end for improvement then what you already indicated within your report. I'm very proud of this work and all the work 
     you accomplished this quarter. Great job, again! 

     -Lamont 
 
