Thank you very much.
I want to thank Arizona State as well.
Yes, we can be safe and secure, if we stay on the offense against the terrorists and if we 
spread freedom and liberty around the world.
I have got a comprehensive strategy to not only chase down the Al Qaida, wherever it exists -- 
and we're making progress; three-quarters of Al Qaida leaders have been brought to justice -- 
but to make sure that countries that harbor terrorists are held to account.
As a result of securing ourselves and ridding the Taliban out of Afghanistan, the Afghan people 
had elections this weekend. And the first voter was a 19-year-old woman. Think about that. 
Freedom is on the march.
We held to account a terrorist regime in Saddam Hussein.
In other words, in order to make sure we're secure, there must be a comprehensive plan. My 
opponent just this weekend talked about how terrorism could be reduced to a nuisance, comparing 
it to prostitution, illegal gambling. I think that attitude and that point of view is dangerous. 
I don't think you can secure America for the long run if you don't have a comprehensive view as 
to how to defeat these people.
At home, we'll do everything we can to protect the homeland. I signed the homeland security bill 
to better align our assets and resources. My opponent voted against it.
We're doing everything we can to protect our borders and ports.
But absolutely we can be secure in the long run. It just takes good, strong leadership.
Gosh, I just don't think I ever said I'm not worried about Osama bin Laden. It's kind of 
one of those exaggerations.
Of course we're worried about Osama bin Laden. We're on the hunt after Osama bin Laden. We're 
using every asset at our disposal to get Osama bin Laden.
My opponent said this war is a matter of intelligence and law enforcement. No, this war is a 
matter of using every asset at our disposal to keep the American people protected.
Bob, we relied upon a company out of England to provide about half of the flu vaccines for 
the United States citizen, and it turned out that the vaccine they were producing was 
contaminated. And so we took the right action and didn't allow contaminated medicine into our 
country. We're working with Canada to hopefully -- that they'll produce a -- help us realize the 
vaccine necessary to make sure our citizens have got flu vaccinations during this upcoming season.
My call to our fellow Americans is if you're healthy, if you're younger, don't get a flu shot 
this year. Help us prioritize those who need to get the flu shot, the elderly and the young.
The CDC, responsible for health in the United States, is setting those priorities and is 
allocating the flu vaccine accordingly.
I haven't gotten a flu shot, and I don't intend to because I want to make sure those who are 
most vulnerable get treated.
We have a problem with litigation in the United States of America. Vaccine manufacturers are 
worried about getting sued, and therefore they have backed off from providing this kind of vaccine.
One of the reasons I'm such a strong believer in legal reform is so that people aren't afraid of 
producing a product that is necessary for the health of our citizens and then end up getting 
sued in a court of law.
But the best thing we can do now, Bob, given the circumstances with the company in England is 
for those of us who are younger and healthy, don't get a flu shot.
I would. Thank you.
I want to remind people listening tonight that a plan is not a litany of complaints, and a plan 
is not to lay out programs that you can't pay for.
He just said he wants everybody to be able to buy in to the same plan that senators and 
congressmen get. That costs the government $7,700 per family. If every family in America signed 
up, like the senator suggested, if would cost us $5 trillion over 10 years.
It's an empty promise. It's called bait and switch.
Thank you.
Well, his rhetoric doesn't match his record.
He been a senator for 20 years. He voted to increase taxes 98 times. When they tried to reduce 
taxes, he voted against that 127 times. He talks about being a fiscal conservative, or fiscally 
sound, but he voted over -- he voted 277 times to waive the budget caps, which would have cost 
the taxpayers $4. 2 trillion.
He talks about PAYGO. I'll tell you what PAYGO means, when you're a senator from Massachusetts, 
when you're a colleague of Ted Kennedy, pay go means: You pay, and he goes ahead and spends.
He's proposed $2. 2 trillion of new spending, and yet the so-called tax on the rich, which is 
also a tax on many small-business owners in America, raises $600 million by our account -- 
billion, $800 billion by his account.
There is a tax gap. And guess who usually ends up filling the tax gap? The middle class.
I propose a detailed budget, Bob. I sent up my budget man to the Congress, and he says, here's 
how we're going to reduce the deficit in half by five years. It requires pro-growth policies 
that grow our economy and fiscal sanity in the halls of Congress.
I'd say, Bob, I've got policies to continue to grow our economy and create the jobs of the 
21st century. And here's some help for you to go get an education. Here's some help for you to 
go to a community college.
We've expanded trade adjustment assistance. We want to help pay for you to gain the skills 
necessary to fill the jobs of the 21st century.
You know, there's a lot of talk about how to keep the economy growing. We talk about fiscal 
matters. But perhaps the best way to keep jobs here in America and to keep this economy growing 
is to make sure our education system works.
I went to Washington to solve problems. And I saw a problem in the public education system in 
America. They were just shuffling too many kids through the system, year after year, grade after 
grade, without learning the basics.
And so we said: Let's raise the standards. We're spending more money, but let's raise the 
standards and measure early and solve problems now, before it's too late.
No, education is how to help the person who's lost a job. Education is how to make sure we've 
got a workforce that's productive and competitive.
Got four more years, I've got more to do to continue to raise standards, to continue to reward 
teachers and school districts that are working, to emphasize math and science in the classrooms, 
to continue to expand Pell Grants to make sure that people have an opportunity to start their 
career with a college diploma.
And so the person you talked to, I say, here's some help, here's some trade adjustment 
assistance money for you to go a community college in your neighborhood, a community college 
which is providing the skills necessary to fill the jobs of the 21st century. And that's what I 
would say to that person.
Whew!
Let me start with the Pell Grants. In his last litany of misstatements. He said we cut Pell 
Grants. We've increased Pell Grants by a million students. That's a fact.
You know, he talks to the workers. Let me talk to the workers.
You've got more money in your pocket as a result of the tax relief we passed and he opposed.
If you have a child, you got a $1,000 child credit. That's money in your pocket.
If you're married, we reduced the marriage penalty. The code ought to encourage marriage, not 
discourage marriage.
We created a 10 percent bracket to help lower-income Americans. A family of four making $40,000 
received about $1,700 in tax relief.
It's your money. The way my opponent talks, he said, "We're going to spend the government's 
money. "No, we're spending your money. And when you have more money in your pocket, you're able 
to better afford things you want.
I believe the role of government is to stand side by side with our citizens to help them realize 
their dreams, not tell citizens how to live their lives.
My opponent talks about fiscal sanity. His record in the United States Senate does not match his 
rhetoric.
He voted to increase taxes 98 times and to bust the budget 277 times.
Senator, no one's playing with your votes. You voted to increase taxes 98 times. When they 
voted -- when they proposed reducing taxes, you voted against it 126 times.
He voted to violate the budget cap 277 times. You know, there's a main stream in American 
politics and you sit right on the far left bank. As a matter of fact, your record is such that 
Ted Kennedy, your colleague, is the conservative senator from Massachusetts.
You know, Bob, I don't know. I just don't know. I do know that we have a choice to make in 
America and that is to treat people with tolerance and respect and dignity. It's important that 
we do that.
And I also know in a free society people, consenting adults can live the way they want to live.
And that's to be honored.
But as we respect someone's rights, and as we profess tolerance, we shouldn't change -- or have 
to change -- our basic views on the sanctity of marriage. I believe in the sanctity of marriage. 
I think it's very important that we protect marriage as an institution, between a man and a woman.
I proposed a constitutional amendment. The reason I did so was because I was worried that 
activist judges are actually defining the definition of marriage, and the surest way to protect 
marriage between a man and woman is to amend the Constitution.
It has also the benefit of allowing citizens to participate in the process. After all, when you 
amend the Constitution, state legislatures must participate in the ratification of the Constitution.
I'm deeply concerned that judges are making those decisions and not the citizenry of the United 
States. You know, Congress passed a law called DOMA, the Defense of Marriage Act.
My opponent was against it. It basically protected states from the action of one state to 
another. It also defined marriage as between a man and woman.
But I'm concerned that that will get overturned. And if it gets overturned, then we'll end up 
with marriage being defined by courts, and I don't think that's in our nation's interests.
I think it's important to promote a culture of life. I think a hospitable society is a 
society where every being counts and every person matters. I believe the ideal world is one in 
which every child is protected in law and welcomed to life. I understand there's great 
differences on this issue of abortion, but I believe reasonable people can come together and put 
good law in place that will help reduce the number of abortions.
Take, for example, the ban on partial birth abortion. It's a brutal practice. People from both 
political parties came together in the halls of Congress and voted overwhelmingly to ban that 
practice. It made a lot of sense. My opponent, in that he's out of the mainstream, voted against 
that law.
What I'm saying is, is that as we promote life and promote a culture of life, surely there are 
ways we can work together to reduce the number of abortions: continue to promote adoption laws 
-- it's a great alternative to abortion -- continue to fund and promote maternity group homes; I 
will continue to promote abstinence programs.
The last debate, my opponent said his wife was involved with those programs. That's great. I 
appreciate that very much. All of us ought to be involved with programs that provide a viable 
alternative to abortion.
Gosh, I sure hope it's not the administration.
There's a -- no, look, there's a systemic problem. Health-care costs are on the rise because the 
consumers are not involved in the decision-making process. Most health-care costs are covered by 
third parties. And therefore, the actual user of health care is not the purchaser of health 
care. And there's no market forces involved with health care.
It's one of the reasons I'm a strong believer in what they call health savings accounts. These 
are accounts that allow somebody to buy a low-premium, high-deductible catastrophic plan and 
couple it with tax-free savings. Businesses can contribute, employees can contribute on a 
contractual basis. But this is a way to make sure people are actually involved with the 
decision-making process on health care.
Secondly, I do believe the lawsuits -- I don't believe, I know -- that the lawsuits are causing 
health-care costs to rise in America. That's why I'm such a strong believer in medical liability 
reform.
In the last debate, my opponent said those lawsuits only caused the cost to go up by 1 percent. 
Well, he didn't include the defensive practice of medicine that costs the federal government 
some $28 billion a year and costs our society between $60 billion and $100 billion a year.
Thirdly, one of the reasons why there's still high cost in medicine is because this is -- they 
don't use any information technology. It's like if you looked at the -- it's the equivalent of 
the buggy and horse days, compared to other industries here in America.
And so, we've got to introduce high technology into health care. We're beginning to do it. We're 
changing the language. We want there to be electronic medical records to cut down on error, as 
well as reduce cost.
People tell me that when the health-care field is fully integrated with information technology, 
it'll wring some 20 percent of the cost out of the system.
And finally, moving generic drugs to the market quicker.
And so, those are four ways to help control the costs in health care.
I think it's important, since he talked about the Medicare plan, has he been in the United 
States Senate for 20 years? He has no record on reforming of health care. No record at all.
He introduced some 300 bills and he's passed five.
No record of leadership.
I came to Washington to solve problems. I was deeply concerned about seniors having to choose 
between prescription drugs and food. And so I led. And in 2006, our seniors will get a 
prescription drug coverage in Medicare.
In all due respect, I'm not so sure it's credible to quote leading news organizations 
about -- oh, never mind. Anyway, let me quote the Lewin report. The Lewin report is a group of 
folks who are not politically affiliated. They analyzed the senator's plan. It cost $1.2 trillion.
The Lewin report accurately noted that there are going to be 20 million people, over 20 million 
people added to government-controlled health care. It would be the largest increase in 
government health care ever.
If you raise the Medicaid to 300 percent, it provides an incentive for small businesses not to 
provide private insurance to their employees. Why should they insure somebody when the 
government's going to insure it for them?
It's estimated that 8 million people will go from private insurance to government insurance.
We have a fundamental difference of opinion. I think government- run health will lead to 
poor-quality health, will lead to rationing, will lead to less choice.
Once a health-care program ends up in a line item in the federal government budget, it leads to 
more controls.
And just look at other countries that have tried to have federally controlled health care. They 
have poor-quality health care.
Our health-care system is the envy of the world because we believe in making sure that the 
decisions are made by doctors and patients, not by officials in the nation's capital.
Talk about the VA: We've increased VA funding by $22 billion in the four years since I've 
been president. That's twice the amount that my predecessor increased VA funding.
Of course we're meeting our obligation to our veterans, and the veterans know that.
We're expanding veterans' health care throughout the country. We're aligning facilities where 
the veterans live now. Veterans are getting very good health care under my administration, and 
they will continue to do so during the next four years.
First, let me make sure that every senior listening today understands that when we're 
talking about reforming Social Security, that they'll still get their checks.
I remember the 2000 campaign, people said if George W. gets elected, your check will be taken 
away. Well, people got their checks, and they'll continue to get their checks.
There is a problem for our youngsters, a real problem. And if we don't act today, the problem 
will be valued in the trillions. And so I think we need to think differently. We'll honor our 
commitment to our seniors. But for our children and our grandchildren, we need to have a 
different strategy.
And recognizing that, I called together a group of our fellow citizens to study the issue. It 
was a committee chaired by the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, a Democrat. And 
they came up with a variety of ideas for people to look at.
I believe that younger workers ought to be allowed to take some of their own money and put it in 
a personal savings account, because I understand that they need to get better rates of return 
than the rates of return being given in the current Social Security trust.
And the compounding rate of interest effect will make it more likely that the Social Security 
system is solvent for our children and our grandchildren. I will work with Republicans and 
Democrats. It'll be a vital issue in my second term. It is an issue that I am willing to take 
on, and so I'll bring Republicans and Democrats together.
And we're of course going to have to consider the costs. But I want to warn my fellow citizens: 
The cost of doing nothing, the cost of saying the current system is OK, far exceeds the costs of 
trying to make sure we save the system for our children.
He forgot to tell you he voted to tax Social Security benefits more than one time. I 
didn't hear any plan to fix Social Security. I heard more of the same.
He talks about middle-class tax cuts. That's exactly where the tax cuts went. Most of the tax 
cuts went to low- and middle-income Americans. And now the tax code is more fair. Twenty percent 
of the upper-income people pay about 80 percent of the taxes in America today because of how we 
structured the tax cuts. People listening out there know the benefits of the tax cuts we passed. 
If you have a child, you got tax relief. If you're married, you got tax relief. If you pay any 
tax at all, you got tax relief. All of which was opposed by my opponent.
And the tax relief was important to spur consumption and investment to get us out of this recession.
People need to remember: Six months prior to my arrival, the stock market started to go down. 
And it was one of the largest declines in our history. And then we had a recession and we got 
attacked, which cost us 1 million jobs.
But we acted. I led the Congress. We passed tax relief. And now this economy is growing. We 
added 1. 9 million new jobs over the last 13 months.
Sure, there's more work to do. But the way to make sure our economy grows is not to raise taxes 
on small-business owners. It's not to increase the scope of the federal government. It's to make 
sure we have fiscal sanity and keep taxes low.
I see it as a serious problem. I see it as a security issue, I see it as an economic 
issue, and I see it as a human-rights issue.
We're increasing the border security of the United States. We've got 1,000 more Border Patrol 
agents on the southern border.
We're using new equipment. We're using unmanned vehicles to spot people coming across.
And we'll continue to do so over the next four years. It's a subject I'm very familiar with. 
After all, I was a border governor for a while.
Many people are coming to this country for economic reasons. They're coming here to work. If you 
can make 50 cents in the heart of Mexico, for example, or make $5 here in America, $5. 15, 
you're going to come here if you're worth your salt, if you want to put food on the table for 
your families. And that's what's happening.
And so in order to take pressure off the borders, in order to make the borders more secure, I 
believe there ought to be a temporary worker card that allows a willing worker and a willing 
employer to mate up, so long as there's not an American willing to do that job, to join up in 
order to be able to fulfill the employers' needs.
That has the benefit of making sure our employers aren't breaking the law as they try to fill 
their workforce needs. It makes sure that the people coming across the border are humanely 
treated, that they're not kept in the shadows of our society, that they're able to go back and 
forth to see their families. See, the card, it'll have a period of time attached to it.
It also means it takes pressure off the border. If somebody is coming here to work with a card, 
it means they're not going to have to sneak across the border. It means our border patrol will 
be more likely to be able to focus on doing their job.
Now, it's very important for our citizens to also know that I don't believe we ought to have 
amnesty. I don't think we ought to reward illegal behavior. There are plenty of people standing 
in line to become a citizen. And we ought not to crowd these people ahead of them in line.
If they want to become a citizen, they can stand in line, too.
And here is where my opponent and I differ. In September 2003, he supported amnesty for illegal 
aliens.
Well, to say that the borders are not as protected as they were prior to September the 
11th shows he doesn't know the borders. They're much better protected today than they were when 
I was the governor of Texas.
We have much more manpower and much more equipment there.
He just doesn't understand how the borders work, evidently, to say that. That is an outrageous 
claim.
And we'll continue to protect our borders. We're continuing to increase manpower and equipment.
Actually, Mitch McConnell had a minimum-wage plan that I supported that would have 
increased the minimum wage.
But let me talk about what's really important for the worker you're referring to. And that's to 
make sure the education system works. It's to make sure we raise standards.
Listen, the No Child Left Behind Act is really a jobs act when you think about it. The No Child 
Left Behind Act says, "We'll raise standards. We'll increase federal spending. But in return for 
extra spending, we now want people to measure -- states and local jurisdictions to measure to 
show us whether or not a child can read or write or add and subtract. "
You cannot solve a problem unless you diagnose the problem. And we weren't diagnosing problems. 
And therefore just kids were being shuffled through the school.
And guess who would get shuffled through? Children whose parents wouldn't speak English as a 
first language just move through.
Many inner-city kids just move through. We've stopped that practice now by measuring early. And 
when we find a problem, we spend extra money to correct it.
I remember a lady in Houston, Texas, told me, "Reading is the new civil right," and she's right. 
In order to make sure people have jobs for the 21st century, we've got to get it right in the 
education system, and we're beginning to close a minority achievement gap now.
You see, we'll never be able to compete in the 21st century unless we have an education system 
that doesn't quit on children, an education system that raises standards, an education that 
makes sure there's excellence in every classroom.
What he's asking me is, will I have a litmus test for my judges? And the answer is, no, I 
will not have a litmus test. I will pick judges who will interpret the Constitution, but I'll 
have no litmus test.
Two things. One, he clearly has a litmus test for his judges, which I disagree with.
And secondly, only a liberal senator from Massachusetts would say that a 49 percent increase in 
funding for education was not enough.
We've increased funds. But more importantly, we've reformed the system to make sure that we 
solve problems early, before they're too late.
He talked about the unemployed. Absolutely we've got to make sure they get educated.
He talked about children whose parents don't speak English as a first language? Absolutely we've 
got to make sure they get educated.
And that's what the No Child Left Behind Act does.
The best way to take the pressure off our troops is to succeed in Iraq, is to train Iraqis 
so they can do the hard work of democracy, is to give them a chance to defend their country, 
which is precisely what we're doing. We'll have 125,000 troops trained by the end of this year.
I remember going on an airplane in Bangor, Maine, to say thanks to the reservists and Guard that 
were headed overseas from Tennessee and North Carolina, Georgia. Some of them had been there before.
The people I talked to their spirits were high. They didn't view their service as a back-door 
draft. They viewed their service as an opportunity to serve their country.
My opponent, the senator, talks about foreign policy.
In our first debate he proposed America pass a global test. In order to defend ourselves, we'd 
have to get international approval. That's one of the major differences we have about defending 
our country.
I'll work with allies. I'll work with friends. We'll continue to build strong coalitions. But I 
will never turn over our national- security decisions to leaders of other countries.
We'll be resolute, we'll be strong, and we'll wage a comprehensive war against the terrorists.
In 1990, there was a vast coalition put together to run Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait. The 
international community, the international world said this is the right thing to do, but when it 
came time to authorize the use of force on the Senate floor, my opponent voted against the use 
of force.
Apparently you can't pass any test under his vision of the world.
Actually, I made my intentions -- made my views clear. I did think we ought to extend the 
assault weapons ban, and was told the fact that the bill was never going to move, because 
Republicans and Democrats were against the assault weapon ban, people of both parties. I believe 
law-abiding citizens ought to be able to own a gun. I believe in background checks at gun shows 
or anywhere to make sure that guns don't get in the hands of people that shouldn't have them.
But the best way to protect our citizens from guns is to prosecute those who commit crimes with 
guns. And that's why early in my administration I called the attorney general and the U. S. 
attorneys and said: Put together a task force all around the country to prosecute those who 
commit crimes with guns. And the prosecutions are up by about 68 percent -- I believe -- is the 
number.
Neighborhoods are safer when we crack down on people who commit crimes with guns.
To me, that's the best way to secure America.
Well, first of all, it is just not true that I haven't met with the Black Congressional 
Caucus. I met with the Black Congressional Caucus at the White House.
And secondly, like my opponent, I don't agree we ought to have quotas. I agree, we shouldn't 
have quotas.
But we ought to have an aggressive effort to make sure people are educated, to make sure when 
they get out of high school there's Pell Grants available for them, which is what we've done. 
We've expanded Pell Grants by a million students.
Do you realize today in America, we spend $73 billion to help 10 million low- and middle-income 
families better afford college?
That's the access I believe is necessary, is to make sure every child learns to read, write, add 
and subtract early, to be able to build on that education by going to college so they can start 
their careers with a college diploma.
I believe the best way to help our small businesses is not only through small-business loans, 
which we have increased since I've been the president of the United States, but to unbundle 
government contracts so people have a chance to be able to bid and receive a contract to help 
get their business going.
Minority ownership of businesses are up, because we created an environment for the 
entrepreneurial spirit to be strong.
I believe part of a hopeful society is one in which somebody owns something. Today in America 
more minorities own a home than ever before. And that's hopeful, and that's positive.
My biggest disappointment in Washington is how partisan the town is. I had a record of 
working with Republicans and Democrats as the governor of Texas, and I was hopeful I'd be able 
to do the same thing.
And we made good progress early on. The No Child Left Behind Act, incredibly enough, was good 
work between me and my administration and people like Senator Ted Kennedy.
And we worked together with Democrats to relieve the tax burden on the middle class and all who 
pay taxes in order to make sure this economy continues to grow.
But Washington is a tough town. And the way I view it is there's a lot of entrenched special 
interests there, people who are, you know, on one side of the issue or another and they spend 
enormous sums of money and they convince different senators to taut their way or different 
congressmen to talk about their issue, and they dig in.
I'll continue, in the four years, to continue to try to work to do so.
My opponent said this is a bitterly divided time. Pretty divided in the 2000 election. So in 
other words, it's pretty divided during the 1990s as well.
We're just in a period -- we've got to work to bring it -- my opponent keeps mentioning John 
McCain, and I'm glad he did. John McCain is for me for president because he understands I have 
the right view in winning the war on terror and that my plan will succeed in Iraq. And my 
opponent has got a plan of retreat and defeat in Iraq.
To listen to them.
To stand up straight and not scowl.
I love the strong women around me. I can't tell you how much I love my wife and our daughters.
I am -- you know it's really interesting. I tell the people on the campaign trail, when I asked 
Laura to marry me, she said, "Fine, just so long as I never have to give a speech. "I said, "OK, 
you've got a deal. "Fortunately, she didn't hold me to that deal. And she's out campaigning 
along with our girls. And she speaks English a lot better than I do. I think people understand 
what she's saying.
But they see a compassionate, strong, great first lady in Laura Bush. I can't tell you how lucky 
I am. When I met her in the backyard at Joe and Jan O'Neill's in Midland, Texas, it was the 
classic backyard barbecue. O'Neill said, "Come on over. I think you'll find somebody who might 
interest you. "So I said all right. Bopped over there. There was only four of us there. And not 
only did she interest me, I guess you would say it was love at first sight.
In the Oval Office, there's a painting by a friend of Laura and mine named -- by Tom Lee. 
And it's a West Texas painting, a painting of a mountain scene.
And he said this about it.
He said, "Sarah and I live on the east side of the mountain. It's the sunrise side, not the 
sunset side. It's the side to see the day that is coming, not to see the day that is gone. "
I love the optimism in that painting, because that's how I feel about America. And we've been 
through a lot together during the last 3 3/4 years. We've come through a recession, a stock 
market decline, an attack on our country.
And yet, because of the hard work of the American people and good policies, this economy is 
growing. Over the next four years, we'll make sure the economy continues to grow.
We reformed our school system, and now there's an achievement gap in America that's beginning to 
close. Over the next four years, we'll continue to insist on excellence in every classroom in 
America so that our children have a chance to realize the great promise of America.
Over the next four years, we'll continue to work to make sure health care is available and 
affordable.
Over the next four years, we'll continue to rally the armies of compassion, to help heal the 
hurt that exists in some of our country's neighborhoods.
I'm optimistic that we'll win the war on terror, but I understand it requires firm resolve and 
clear purpose. We must never waver in the face of this enemy that -- these ideologues of hate.
And as we pursue the enemy wherever it exists, we'll also spread freedom and liberty. We got 
great faith in the ability of liberty to transform societies, to convert a hostile world to a 
peaceful world.
My hope for America is a prosperous America, a hopeful America and a safer world.
I want to thank you for listening tonight.
I'm asking for your vote.
God bless you.
