Well, first of all, Bob, thank you for moderating tonight.
Thank you, Arizona State, for welcoming us.
And thank you to the Presidential Commission for undertaking this enormous task. We're proud to 
be here.
Mr. President, I'm glad to be here with you again to share similarities and differences with the 
American people.
Will we ever be safe and secure again? Yes. We absolutely must be. That's the goal.
Now, how do we achieve it is the most critical component of it.
I believe that this president, regrettably, rushed us into a war, made decisions about foreign 
policy, pushed alliances away. And, as a result, America is now bearing this extraordinary 
burden where we are not as safe as we ought to be.
The measurement is not: Are we safer? The measurement is: Are we as safe as we ought to be? And 
there are a host of options that this president had available to him, like making sure that at 
all our ports in America containers are inspected. Only 95 percent of them -- 95 percent come in 
today uninspected. That's not good enough.
People who fly on airplanes today, the cargo hold is not X-rayed, but the baggage is. That's not 
good enough. Firehouses don't have enough firefighters in them. Police officers are being cut 
from the streets of America because the president decided to cut the COPS program.
So we can do a better job of homeland security. I can do a better job of waging a smarter, more 
effective war on terror and guarantee that we will go after the terrorists.
I will hunt them down, and we'll kill them, we'll capture them. We'll do whatever is necessary 
to be safe.
But I pledge this to you, America: I will do it in the way that Franklin Roosevelt and Ronald 
Reagan and John Kennedy and others did, where we build the strongest alliances, where the world 
joins together, where we have the best intelligence and where we are able, ultimately, to be 
more safe and secure.
Yes. When the president had an opportunity to capture or kill Osama bin Laden, he took 
his focus off of them, outsourced the job to Afghan warlords, and Osama bin Laden escaped.
Six months after he said Osama bin Laden must be caught dead or alive, this president was asked, 
"Where is Osama bin Laden? " He said, "I don't know. I don't really think about him very much. 
I'm not that concerned. "
We need a president who stays deadly focused on the real war on terror.
This really underscores the problem with the American health-care system. It's not 
working for the American family. And it's gotten worse under President Bush over the course of 
the last years.
Five million Americans have lost their health insurance in this country. You've got about a 
million right here in Arizona, just shy, 950,000, who have no health insurance at all. 82,000 
Arizonians lost their health insurance under President Bush's watch. 223,000 kids in Arizona 
have no health insurance at all.
All across our country -- go to Ohio, 1. 4 million Ohioans have no health insurance, 114,000 of 
them lost it under President Bush; Wisconsin, 82,000 Wisconsinites lost it under President Bush.
This president has turned his back on the wellness of America. And there is no system. In fact, 
it's starting to fall apart not because of lawsuits -- though they are a problem, and John 
Edwards and I are committed to fixing them -- but because of the larger issue that we don't 
cover Americans.
Children across our country don't have health care. We're the richest country on the face of the 
planet, the only industrialized nation in the world not to do it.
I have a plan to cover all Americans. We're going to make it affordable and accessible. We're 
going to let everybody buy into the same health-care plan senators and congressmen give themselves.
Actually, it's not an empty promise.
It's really interesting, because the president used that very plan as a reason for seniors to 
accept his prescription drug plan. He said, if it's good enough for the congressmen and senators 
to have choice, seniors ought to have choice.
What we do is we have choice. I choose Blue Cross/Blue Shield. Other senators, other congressmen 
choose other programs.
But the fact is, we're going to help Americans be able to buy into it. Those that can afford it 
are going to buy in themselves. We're not giving this away for nothing.
I'll tell you exactly how I can do it: by reinstating what President Bush took away, 
which is called pay as you go.
During the 1990s, we had pay-as-you-go rules. If you were going to pass something in the 
Congress, you had to show where you are going to pay for it and how.
President Bush has taken -- he's the only president in history to do this. He's also the only 
president in 72 years to lose jobs -- 1. 6 million jobs lost. He's the only president to have 
incomes of families go down for the last three years; the only president to see exports go down; 
the only president to see the lowest level of business investment in our country as it is today.
Now, I'm going to reverse that. I'm going to change that. We're going to restore the fiscal 
discipline we had in the 1990s.
Every plan that I have laid out -- my health-care plan, my plan for education, my plan for kids 
to be able to get better college loans -- I've shown exactly how I'm going to pay for those.
And we start -- we don't do it exclusively -- but we start by rolling back George Bush's 
unaffordable tax cut for the wealthiest people, people earning more than $200,000 a year, and we 
pass, hopefully, the McCain-Kerry Commission which identified some $60 billion that we can get.
We shut the loophole which has American workers actually subsidizing the loss of their own job. 
They just passed an expansion of that loophole in the last few days: $43 billion of giveaways, 
including favors to the oil and gas industry and the people importing ceiling fans from China.
I'm going to stand up and fight for the American worker. And I am going to do it in a way that's 
fiscally sound. I show how I pay for the health care, how we pay for the education.
I have a manufacturing jobs credit. We pay for it by shutting that loophole overseas. We raise 
the student loans. I pay for it by changing the relationship with the banks.
This president has never once vetoed one bill; the first president in a hundred years not to do 
that.
I want you to notice how the president switched away from jobs and started talking about 
education principally.
Let me come back in one moment to that, but I want to speak for a second, if I can, to what the 
president said about fiscal responsibility.
Being lectured by the president on fiscal responsibility is a little bit like Tony Soprano 
talking to me about law and order in this country.
This president has taken a $5. 6 trillion surplus and turned it into deficits as far as the eye 
can see. Health-care costs for the average American have gone up 64 percent; tuitions have gone 
up 35 percent; gasoline prices up 30 percent; Medicare premiums went up 17 percent a few days 
ago; prescription drugs are up 12 percent a year.
But guess what, America? The wages of Americans have gone down. The jobs that are being created 
in Arizona right now are paying about $13,700 less than the jobs that we're losing.
And the president just walks on by this problem. The fact is that he's cut job-training money. 
$1 billion was cut. They only added a little bit back this year because it's an election year.
They've cut the Pell Grants and the Perkins loans to help kids be able to go to college.
They've cut the training money. They've wound up not even extending unemployment benefits and 
not even extending health care to those people who are unemployed.
I'm going to do those things, because that's what's right in America: Help workers to transition 
in every respect.
I don't blame them entirely for it. I blame the president for the things the president 
could do that has an impact on it.
Outsourcing is going to happen. I've acknowledged that in union halls across the country. I've 
had shop stewards stand up and say, "Will you promise me you're going to stop all this 
outsourcing? "And I've looked them in the eye and I've said, "No, I can't do that. "
What I can promise you is that I will make the playing field as fair as possible, that I will, 
for instance, make certain that with respect to the tax system that you as a worker in America 
are not subsidizing the loss of your job.
Today, if you're an American business, you actually get a benefit for going overseas. You get to 
defer your taxes.
So if you're looking at a competitive world, you say to yourself, "Hey, I do better overseas 
than I do here in America. "
That's not smart. I don't want American workers subsidizing the loss of their own job. And when 
I'm president, we're going to shut that loophole in a nanosecond and we're going to use that 
money to lower corporate tax rates in America for all corporations, 5 percent. And we're going 
to have a manufacturing jobs credit and a job hiring credit so we actually help people be able 
to hire here.
The second thing that we can do is provide a fair trade playing field. This president didn't 
stand up for Boeing when Airbus was violating international rules and subsidies. He discovered 
Boeing during the course of this campaign after I'd been talking about it for months.
The fact is that the president had an opportunity to stand up and take on China for currency 
manipulation. There are companies that wanted to petition the administration. They were told: 
Don't even bother; we're not going to listen to it.
The fact is that there have been markets shut to us that we haven't stood up and fought for. I'm 
going to fight for a fair trade playing field for the American worker. And I will fight for the 
American worker just as hard as I fight for my own job. That's what the American worker wants. 
And if we do that, we can have an impact.
Plus, we need fiscal discipline. Restore fiscal discipline, we'll do a lot better.
Bob, anybody can play with these votes. Everybody knows that.
I have supported or voted for tax cuts over 600 times. I broke with my party in order to balance 
the budget, and Ronald Reagan signed into law the tax cut that we voted for. I voted for IRA tax 
cuts. I voted for small-business tax cuts.
But you know why the Pell Grants have gone up in their numbers? Because more people qualify for 
them because they don't have money.
But they're not getting the $5,100 the president promised them. They're getting less money.
We have more people who qualify. That's not what we want.
We're all God's children, Bob. And I think if you were to talk to Dick Cheney's daughter, 
who is a lesbian, she would tell you that she's being who she was, she's being who she was born as.
I think if you talk to anybody, it's not choice. I've met people who struggled with this for 
years, people who were in a marriage because they were living a sort of convention, and they 
struggled with it.
And I've met wives who are supportive of their husbands or vice versa when they finally sort of 
broke out and allowed themselves to live who they were, who they felt God had made them.
I think we have to respect that.
The president and I share the belief that marriage is between a man and a woman. I believe that. 
I believe marriage is between a man and a woman.
But I also believe that because we are the United States of America, we're a country with a 
great, unbelievable Constitution, with rights that we afford people, that you can't discriminate 
in the workplace. You can't discriminate in the rights that you afford people.
You can't disallow someone the right to visit their partner in a hospital. You have to allow 
people to transfer property, which is why I'm for partnership rights and so forth.
Now, with respect to DOMA and the marriage laws, the states have always been able to manage 
those laws. And they're proving today, every state, that they can manage them adequately.
I respect their views. I completely respect their views. I am a Catholic. And I grew up 
learning how to respect those views. But I disagree with them, as do many.
I believe that I can't legislate or transfer to another American citizen my article of faith. 
What is an article of faith for me is not something that I can legislate on somebody who doesn't 
share that article of faith.
I believe that choice is a woman's choice. It's between a woman, God and her doctor. And that's 
why I support that.
Now, I will not allow somebody to come in and change Roe v. Wade.
The president has never said whether or not he would do that. But we know from the people he's 
tried to appoint to the court he wants to.
I will not. I will defend the right of Roe v. Wade.
Now, with respect to religion, you know, as I said, I grew up a Catholic. I was an altar boy. I 
know that throughout my life this has made a difference to me.
And as President Kennedy said when he ran for president, he said, "I'm not running to be a 
Catholic president. I'm running to be a president who happens to be Catholic. "
My faith affects everything that I do, in truth. There's a great passage of the Bible that says, 
"What does it mean, my brother, to say you have faith if there are no deeds? Faith without works 
is dead. "
And I think that everything you do in public life has to be guided by your faith, affected by 
your faith, but without transferring it in any official way to other people.
That's why I fight against poverty. That's why I fight to clean up the environment and protect 
this earth.
That's why I fight for equality and justice. All of those things come out of that fundamental 
teaching and belief of faith.
But I know this, that President Kennedy in his inaugural address told all of us that here on 
Earth, God's work must truly be our own. And that's what we have to -- I think that's the test 
of public service.
The reason health-care costs are getting higher, one of the principal reasons is that 
this administration has stood in the way of common-sense efforts that would have reduced the 
costs. Let me give you a prime example.
In the Senate we passed the right of Americans to import drugs from Canada. But the president 
and his friends took it out in the House, and now you don't have that right. The president 
blocked you from the right to have less expensive drugs from Canada.
We also wanted Medicare to be able to negotiate bulk purchasing. The VA does that. The VA 
provides lower-cost drugs to our veterans. We could have done that in Medicare.
Medicare is paid for by the American taxpayer. Medicare belongs to you. Medicare is for seniors, 
who many of them are on fixed income, to lift them out of poverty.
But rather than help you, the taxpayer, have lower cost, rather than help seniors have less 
expensive drugs, the president made it illegal -- illegal -- for Medicare to actually go out and 
bargain for lower prices.
Once again, the president is misleading America. I've actually passed 56 individual bills 
that I've personally written and, in addition to that, and not always under my name, there is 
amendments on certain bills.
But more importantly, with respect to the question of no record, I helped write -- I did write, 
I was one of the original authors of the early childhood health care and the expansion of health 
care that we did in the middle of the 1990s. And I'm very proud of that.
So the president's wrong.
Well, two leading national news networks have both said the president's characterization 
of my health-care plan is incorrect. One called it fiction. The other called it untrue.
The fact is that my health-care plan, America, is very simple. It gives you the choice. I don't 
force you to do anything. It's not a government plan. The government doesn't require you to do 
anything. You choose your doctor. You choose your plan.
If you don't want to take the offer of the plan that I want to put forward, you don't have do. 
You can keep what you have today, keep a high deductible, keep high premiums, keep a high 
co-pay, keep low benefits.
But I got a better plan. And I don't think a lot of people are going to want to keep what they 
have today.
Here's what I do: We take over Medicaid children from the states so that every child in America 
is covered. And in exchange, if the states want to -- they're not forced to, they can choose to 
-- they cover individuals up to 300 percent of poverty. It's their choice.
I think they'll choose it, because it's a net plus of $5 billion to them.
We allow you -- if you choose to, you don't have to -- but we give you broader competition to 
allow you to buy into the same health care plan that senators and congressmen give themselves. 
If it's good enough for us, it's good enough for every American. I believe that your health care 
is just as important as any politician in Washington, D. C.
You want to buy into it, you can. We give you broader competition. That helps lower prices.
In addition to that, we're going to allow people 55 to 64 to buy into Medicare early. And most 
importantly, we give small business a 50 percent tax credit so that after we lower the costs of 
health care, they also get, whether they're self-employed or a small business, a lower cost to 
be able to cover their employees.
Now, what happens is when you begin to get people covered like that -- for instance in diabetes, 
if you diagnose diabetes early, you could save $50 billion in the health care system of America 
by avoiding surgery and dialysis. It works. And I'm going to offer it to America.
The president just said that government-run health care results in poor quality.
Now, maybe that explains why he hasn't fully funded the VA and the VA hospital is having trouble 
and veterans are complaining. Maybe that explains why Medicare patients are complaining about 
being pushed off of Medicare. He doesn't adequately fund it.
But let me just say to America: I am not proposing a government-run program. That's not what I 
have. I have Blue Cross/Blue Shield. Senators and congressmen have a wide choice. Americans 
ought to have it too.
You just heard the president say that young people ought to be able to take money out of 
Social Security and put it in their own accounts.
Now, my fellow Americans, that's an invitation to disaster.
The CBO said very clearly that if you were to adopt the president's plan, there would be a $2 
trillion hole in Social Security, because today's workers pay in to the system for today's 
retirees. And the CBO said -- that's the Congressional Budget Office; it's bipartisan -- they 
said that there would have to be a cut in benefits of 25 percent to 40 percent.
Now, the president has never explained to America, ever, hasn't done it tonight, where does the 
transitional money, that $2 trillion, come from?
He's already got $3 trillion, according to The Washington Post, of expenses that he's put on the 
line from his convention and the promises of this campaign, none of which are paid for. Not one 
of them are paid for.
The fact is that the president is driving the largest deficits in American history. He's broken 
the pay-as-you-go rules.
I have a record of fighting for fiscal responsibility. In 1985, I was one of the first Democrats 
-- broke with my party. We balanced the budget in the '90s. We paid down the debt for two years.
And that's what we're going to do. We're going to protect Social Security. I will not privatize 
it. I will not cut the benefits. And we're going to be fiscally responsible. And we will take 
care of Social Security.
Not at all. Absolutely not, Bob. This is the same thing we heard -- remember, I appeared 
on "Meet the Press" with Tim Russert in 1990-something. We heard the same thing. We fixed it.
In fact, we put together a $5. 6 trillion surplus in the '90s that was for the purpose of saving 
Social Security. If you take the tax cut that the president of the United States has given -- 
President Bush gave to Americans in the top 1 percent of America -- just that tax cut that went 
to the top 1 percent of America would have saved Social Security until the year 2075.
The president decided to give it to the wealthiest Americans in a tax cut. Now, Alan Greenspan, 
who I think has done a terrific job in monetary policy, supports the president's tax cut. I 
don't. I support it for the middle class, not that part of it that goes to people earning more 
than $200,000 a year.
And when I roll it back and we invest in the things that I have talked about to move our 
economy, we're going to grow sufficiently, it would begin to cut the deficit in half, and we get 
back to where we were at the end of the 1990s when we balanced the budget and paid down the debt 
of this country.
Now, we can do that.
Now, if later on after a period of time we find that Social Security is in trouble, we'll pull 
together the top experts of the country. We'll do exactly what we did in the 1990s. And we'll 
make whatever adjustment is necessary.
But the first and most important thing is to start creating jobs in America. The jobs the 
president is creating pay $9,000 less than the jobs that we're losing. And this is the first 
president in 72 years to preside over an economy in America that has lost jobs, 1. 6 million jobs.
Eleven other presidents -- six Democrats and five Republicans -- had wars, had recessions, had 
great difficulties; none of them lost jobs the way this president has.
I have a plan to put America back to work. And if we're fiscally responsible and put America 
back to work, we're going to fix Social Security.
Let me just answer one part of the last question quickly, and then I'll come to immigration.
The American middle-class family isn't making it right now, Bob. And what the president said 
about the tax cuts has been wiped out by the increase in health care, the increase in gasoline, 
the increase in tuitions, the increase in prescription drugs.
The fact is, the take-home pay of a typical American family as a share of national income is 
lower than it's been since 1929. And the take-home pay of the richest . 1 percent of Americans 
is the highest it's been since 1928.
Under President Bush, the middle class has seen their tax burden go up and the wealthiest's tax 
burden has gone down. Now that's wrong.
Now, with respect to immigration reform, the president broke his promise on immigration reform. 
He said he would reform it. Four years later he is now promising another plan.
Here's what I'll do: Number one, the borders are more leaking today than they were before 9/11. 
The fact is, we haven't done what we need to do to toughen up our borders, and I will.
Secondly, we need a guest-worker program, but if it's all we have, it's not going to solve the 
problem.
The second thing we need is to crack down on illegal hiring. It's against the law in the United 
States to hire people illegally, and we ought to be enforcing that law properly.
And thirdly, we need an earned-legalization program for people who have been here for a long 
time, stayed out of trouble, got a job, paid their taxes, and their kids are American. We got to 
start moving them toward full citizenship, out of the shadows. SCHIEFFER: Do you want to 
respond, Mr. President?
Four thousand people a day are coming across the border.
The fact is that we now have people from the Middle East, allegedly, coming across the border.
And we're not doing what we ought to do in terms of the technology. We have iris-identification 
technology. We have thumbprint, fingerprint technology today. We can know who the people are, 
that they're really the people they say they are when they cross the border.
We could speed it up. There are huge delays.
The fact is our borders are not as secure as they ought to be, and I'll make them secure.
Well, I'm glad you raised that question.
It's long overdue time to raise the minimum wage.
And, America, this is one of those issues that separates the president and myself.
We have fought to try to raise the minimum wage in the last years. But the Republican leadership 
of the House and Senate won't even let us have a vote on it. We're not allowed to vote on it. 
They don't want to raise the minimum wage. The minimum wage is the lowest minimum wage value it 
has been in our nation in 50 years.
If we raise the minimum wage, which I will do over several years to $7 an hour, 9. 2 million 
women who are trying to raise their families would earn another $3,800 a year.
The president has denied 9. 2 million women $3,800 a year, but he doesn't hesitate to fight for 
$136,000 to a millionaire.
One percent of America got $89 billion last year in a tax cut, but people working hard, playing 
by the rules, trying to take care of their kids, family values, that we're supposed to value so 
much in America -- I'm tired of politicians who talk about family values and don't value families.
What we need to do is raise the minimum wage. We also need to hold on to equal pay. Women work 
for 76 cents on the dollar for the same work that men do. That's not right in America.
And we had an initiative that we were working on to raise women's pay. They've cut it off. 
They've stopped it. They don't enforce these kinds of things.
Now, I think that it's a matter of fundamental right that if we raise the minimum wage, 15 
million Americans would be positively affected. We'd put money into the hands of people who work 
hard, who obey the rules, who play for the American dream.
And if we did that, we'd have more consumption ability in America, which is what we need right 
now in order to kick our economy into gear. I will fight tooth and nail to pass the minimum wage.
Is that a new question or a 30-second question?
Which time limit. . .
Thank you very much.
Well, again, the president didn't answer the question.
I'll answer it straight to America. I'm not going to appoint a judge to the Court who's going to 
undo a constitutional right, whether it's the First Amendment, or the Fifth Amendment, or some 
other right that's given under our courts today -- under the Constitution. And I believe that 
the right of choice is a constitutional right.
So I don't intend to see it undone.
Clearly, the president wants to leave in ambivalence or intends to undo it.
But let me go a step further. We have a long distance yet to travel in terms of fairness in 
America. I don't know how you can govern in this country when you look at New York City and you 
see that 50 percent of the black males there are unemployed, when you see 40 percent of Hispanic 
children -- of black children in some cities -- dropping out of high school.
And yet the president who talks about No Child Left Behind refused to fully fund -- by $28 
billion -- that particular program so you can make a difference in the lives of those young people.
Now right here in Arizona, that difference would have been $131 million to the state of Arizona 
to help its kids be able to have better education and to lift the property tax burden from its 
citizens. The president reneged on his promise to fund No Child Left Behind.
He'll tell you he's raised the money, and he has. But he didn't put in what he promised, and 
that makes a difference in the lives of our children.
You don't measure it by a percentage increase. Mr. President, you measure it by whether 
you're getting the job done.
Five hundred thousand kids lost after-school programs because of your budget.
Now, that's not in my gut. That's not in my value system, and certainly not so that the 
wealthiest people in America can walk away with another tax cut.
$89 billion last year to the top 1 percent of Americans, but kids lost their after-school 
programs. You be the judge.
Well, I think the fact that they're facing these repeated call-ups, some of them two and 
three deployments, and there's a stop- loss policy that prevents people from being able to get 
out when their time was up, is a reflection of the bad judgment this president exercised in how 
he has engaged in the world and deployed our forces.
Our military is overextended. Nine out of 10 active-duty Army divisions are either in Iraq, 
going to Iraq or have come back from Iraq. One way or the other, they're wrapped up in it.
Now, I've proposed adding two active-duty divisions to the armed forces of the United States -- 
one combat, one support.
In addition, I'm going to double the number of Special Forces so that we can fight a more 
effective war on terror, with less pressure on the National Guard and Reserve. And what I would 
like to do is see the National Guard and Reserve be deployed differently here in our own 
country. There's much we can do with them with respect to homeland security. We ought to be 
doing that. And that would relieve an enormous amount of pressure.
But the most important thing to relieve the pressure on all of the armed forces is frankly to 
run a foreign policy that recognizes that America is strongest when we are working with real 
alliances, when we are sharing the burdens of the world by working through our statesmanship at 
the highest levels and our diplomacy to bring other nations to our side.
I've said it before, I say it again: I believe the president broke faith to the American people 
in the way that he took this nation to war. He said he would work through a real alliance. He 
said in Cincinnati we would plan carefully, we would take every precaution. Well, we didn't. And 
the result is our forces today are overextended.
The fact is that he did not choose to go to war as a last result. And America now is paying, 
already $120 billion, up to $200 billion before we're finished and much more probably. And that 
is the result of this president taking his eye off of Osama bin Laden.
I have never suggested a test where we turn over our security to any nation. In fact, 
I've said the opposite: I will never turn the security of the United States over to any nation. 
No nation will ever have a veto over us.
But I think it makes sense, I think most Americans in their guts know, that we ought to pass a 
sort of truth standard. That's how you gain legitimacy with your own countrypeople, and that's 
how you gain legitimacy in the world.
But I'll never fail to protect the United States of America.
I believe it was a failure of presidential leadership not to reauthorize the assault 
weapons ban.
I am a hunter. I'm a gun owner. I've been a hunter since I was a kid, 12, 13 years old. And I 
respect the Second Amendment and I will not tamper with the Second Amendment.
But I'll tell you this. I'm also a former law enforcement officer. I ran one of the largest 
district attorney's offices in America, one of the ten largest. I put people behind bars for the 
rest of their life. I've broken up organized crime. I know something about prosecuting.
And most of the law enforcement agencies in America wanted that assault weapons ban. They don't 
want to go into a drug bust and be facing an AK-47.
I was hunting in Iowa last year with a sheriff from one of the counties there, and he pointed to 
a house in back of us, and said, "See the house over? We just did a drug bust a week earlier, 
and the guy we arrested had an AK-47 lying on the bed right beside him. "
Because of the president's decision today, law enforcement officers will walk into a place that 
will be more dangerous. Terrorists can now come into America and go to a gun show and, without 
even a background check, buy an assault weapon today.
And that's what Osama bin Laden's handbook said, because we captured it in Afghanistan. It 
encouraged them to do it.
So I believe America's less safe.
If Tom DeLay or someone in the House said to me, "Sorry, we don't have the votes," I'd have 
said, "Then we're going to have a fight. "
And I'd have taken it out to the country and I'd have had every law enforcement officer in the 
country visit those congressmen. We'd have won what Bill Clinton won.
No, Bob, regrettably, we have not moved far enough along.
And I regret to say that this administration has even blocked steps that could help us move 
further along. I'll give you an example.
I served on the Small Business Committee for a long time. I was chairman of it once. Now I'm the 
senior Democrat on it. We used to -- you know, we have a goal there for minority set-aside 
programs, to try to encourage ownership in the country. They don't reach those goals. They don't 
even fight to reach those goals. They've tried to undo them.
The fact is that in too many parts of our country, we still have discrimination. And affirmative 
action is not just something that applies to people of color. Some people have a mistaken view 
of it in America. It also is with respect to women, it's with respect to other efforts to try to 
reach out and be inclusive in our country.
I think that we have a long way to go, regrettably. If you look at what's happened -- we've made 
progress, I want to say that at the same time.
During the Clinton years, as you may recall, there was a fight over affirmative action. And 
there were many people, like myself, who opposed quotas, who felt there were places where it was 
overreaching. So we had a policy called "Mend it, don't end it. "We fixed it.
And we fixed it for a reason: because there are too many people still in this country who feel 
the stark resistance of racism, and so we have a distance to travel. As president, I will make 
certain we travel it.
Now, let me just share something. This president is the first president ever, I think, not to 
meet with the NAACP. This is a president who hasn't met with the Black Congressional Caucus. 
This is a president who has not met with the civil rights leadership of our country.
If a president doesn't reach out and bring people in and be inclusive, then how are we going to 
get over those barriers? I see that as part of my job as president, and I'll make my best effort 
to do it.
Well, I respect everything that the president has said and certainly respect his faith. I 
think it's important and I share it. I think that he just said that freedom is a gift from the 
Almighty.
Everything is a gift from the Almighty. And as I measure the words of the Bible -- and we all 
do; different people measure different things -- the Koran, the Torah, or, you know, Native 
Americans who gave me a blessing the other day had their own special sense of connectedness to a 
higher being. And people all find their ways to express it.
I was taught -- I went to a church school and I was taught that the two greatest commandments 
Very much so.
Let me pay a compliment to the president, if I may. I think in those days after 9/11, I thought 
the president did a terrific job. And I really was moved, as well as impressed, by the speech 
that he gave to the Congress.
And I think the hug Tom Daschle gave him at that moment was about as genuine a sense of there 
being no Democrats, no Republicans, we were all just Americans. That's where we were.
That's not where we are today. I regret to say that the president who called himself a uniter, 
not a divider, is now presiding over the most divided America in the recent memory of our 
country. I've never seen such ideological squabbles in the Congress of the United States. I've 
never seen members of a party locked out of meetings the way they're locked out today.
We have to change that. And as president, I am committed to changing that. I don't care if the 
idea comes from the other side or this side. I think we have to come together and work to change it.
And I've done that. Over 20 years in the United States Senate, I've worked with John McCain, 
who's sitting here, I've worked with other colleagues. I've reached across the aisle. I've tried 
to find the common ground, because that's what makes us strong as Americans.
And if Americans trust me with the presidency, I can pledge to you, we will have the most 
significant effort, openly -- not secret meetings in the White House with special interests, not 
ideologically driven efforts to push people aside -- but a genuine effort to try to restore 
America's hope and possibilities by bringing people together.
And one of the ways we're going to do it is, I'm going to work with my friend, John McCain, to 
further campaign finance reform so we get these incredible amounts of money out of the system 
and open it up to average people, so America is really represented by the people who make up 
America.
Well, I guess the president and you and I are three examples of lucky people who married up.
And some would say maybe me more so than others.
But I can take it.
Can I say, if I could just say a word about a woman that you didn't ask about, but my mom passed 
away a couple years ago, just before I was deciding to run. And she was in the hospital, and I 
went in to talk to her and tell her what I was thinking of doing.
And she looked at me from her hospital bed and she just looked at me and she said, "Remember: 
integrity, integrity, integrity. "Those are the three words that she left me with.
And my daughters and my wife are people who just are filled with that sense of what's right, 
what's wrong.
They also kick me around. They keep me honest. They don't let me get away with anything. I can 
sometimes take myself too seriously. They surely don't let me do that.
And I'm blessed, as I think the president is blessed, as I said last time. I've watched him with 
the first lady, who I admire a great deal, and his daughters. He's a great father. And I think 
we're both very lucky.
My fellow Americans, as you heard from Bob Schieffer a moment ago, America is being 
tested by division. More than ever, we need to be united as a country.
And, like Franklin Roosevelt, I don't care whether an idea is a Republican idea or a Democrat 
idea. I just care whether it works for America and whether it's going to make us stronger.
These are dangerous times. I believe I offer tested, strong leadership that can calm the waters 
of the troubled world. And I believe that we can together do things that are within the grasp of 
Americans.
We can lift our schools up. We can create jobs that pay more than the jobs we're losing 
overseas. We can have health care for all Americans. We can further the cause of equality in our 
nation.
Let me just make it clear: I will never allow any country to have a veto over our security. Just 
as I fought for our country as a young man, with the same passion I will fight to defend this 
nation that I love.
And, with faith in God and with conviction in the mission of America, I believe that we can 
reach higher. I believe we can do better.
I think the greatest possibilities of our country, our dreams and our hopes, are out there just 
waiting for us to grab onto them. And I ask you to embark on that journey with me.
I ask you for your trust. I ask you for your help. I ask you to allow me the privilege of 
leading this great nation of ours, of helping us to be stronger here at home and to be respected 
again in the world and, most of all, to be safer forever.
Thank you. Goodnight. And God bless the United States of America.
